EMAIL_SETUP_VERIFICATION.md, before:

# Email Notification System - Setup Verification

## ✅ Configuration Complete

**Date**: $(date)
**Resend API Key**: Configured in Supabase Secrets
**Status**: Ready for use

## Email Functions Configured

### 1. Quote Request Email (`quote-request`)
- **Function**: `supabase/functions/quote-request/index.ts`
- **Resend API Key**: ✅ Configured via `RESEND_API_KEY`
- **Email Type**: Quote requests with PDF attachment
- **From**: QCS Cargo <quotes@qcs-cargo.com>
- **Status**: ✅ Active

### 2. Quote Follow-Up Email (`quote-follow-up`)
- **Function**: `supabase/functions/quote-follow-up/index.ts`
- **Resend API Key**: ✅ Configured via `RESEND_API_KEY`
- **Email Type**: Automated follow-ups for expiring quotes
- **From**: QCS Cargo <quotes@qcs-cargo.com>
- **Status**: ✅ Active

## Testing Email Functionality

### Test Quote Request Email
1. Go to: https://qcs-cargo.com/shipping-calculator
2. Calculate a shipping quote
3. Click "Email my QCS Cargo quote"
4. Fill in customer details
5. Submit
6. **Expected**: Customer receives email with PDF attachment

### Test Quote Follow-Up Email
1. Admin panel → Quotes Management
2. Select expired or expiring quote
3. Trigger follow-up
4. **Expected**: Customer receives follow-up email

## Verification Steps

### 1. Check Supabase Secrets
```bash
supabase secrets list | grep RESEND
```
**Expected Output**: `RESEND_API_KEY | [hashed value]`

### 2. Check Edge Function Logs
```bash
# Quote Request
supabase functions logs quote-request --tail

# Quote Follow-Up  
supabase functions logs quote-follow-up --tail
```

### 3. Check Resend Dashboard
- Login to https://resend.com
- Navigate to **Logs** section
- Verify emails are being sent successfully

## Email Configuration Details

- **Provider**: Resend (https://resend.com)
- **API Endpoint**: https://api.resend.com/emails
- **From Email**: quotes@qcs-cargo.com
- **Reply-To**: quotes@qcs-cargo.com
- **Domain**: qcs-cargo.com (must be verified in Resend)

## Current Email Notifications

### ✅ Implemented
- Quote request emails (with PDF)
- Quote follow-up emails (with PDF)

### ❌ Not Yet Implemented (Database notifications only)
- Shipment status updates
- Booking confirmations
- Invoice notifications
- Document upload notifications

## Next Steps (Optional Enhancements)

To add email notifications for other events:

1. **Shipment Status Updates**
   - Modify `update-shipment-status` function
   - Send email when status changes to: delivered, out_for_delivery, exception

2. **Booking Confirmations**
   - Modify `create-booking` function
   - Send confirmation email after booking creation

3. **Invoice Notifications**
   - Modify `create-invoice` function
   - Send email when invoice is created

## Troubleshooting

### Emails Not Sending

1. **Check API Key**
   ```bash
   supabase secrets list | grep RESEND
   ```
   Should show `RESEND_API_KEY` secret

2. **Check Function Logs**
   ```bash
   supabase functions logs quote-request --tail 20
   ```
   Look for errors or "Resend API key not configured"

3. **Verify Domain**
   - Login to Resend dashboard
   - Check domain verification status
   - If not verified, can only send to verified email addresses

4. **Test API Key Directly**
   ```bash
   curl -X POST 'https://api.resend.com/emails' \
     -H 'Authorization: Bearer re_Sc71oYZv_KWmDdxJtEgMPNCwU2ioKFpPc' \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{
       "from": "QCS Cargo <quotes@qcs-cargo.com>",
       "to": "test@example.com",
       "subject": "Test Email",
       "html": "<p>Test</p>"
     }'
   ```

## Security Notes

- ✅ API key stored in Supabase Secrets (encrypted)
- ✅ Never committed to git
- ✅ Accessible only to edge functions
- ⚠️ Domain must be verified for production use
- ⚠️ API key should be rotated periodically

## Monitoring

- **Resend Dashboard**: https://resend.com/logs
- **Supabase Logs**: Edge function logs in Supabase dashboard
- **Error Tracking**: Check function logs for email failures

Commit message:

security: Remove secrets from documentation and enhance protection mechanisms
- Sanitized all documentation files (placeholders only)
- Enhanced .gitignore with secret patterns
- Added pre-commit hook for secret detection
- Created comprehensive security documentation
- All secrets now stored in Supabase Secrets only

EMAIL_SETUP_VERIFICATION.md, after:

# Email Notification System - Setup Verification

## ✅ Configuration Complete

**Date**: $(date)
**Resend API Key**: Configured in Supabase Secrets
**Status**: Ready for use

## Email Functions Configured

### 1. Quote Request Email (`quote-request`)
- **Function**: `supabase/functions/quote-request/index.ts`
- **Resend API Key**: ✅ Configured via `RESEND_API_KEY`
- **Email Type**: Quote requests with PDF attachment
- **From**: QCS Cargo <quotes@qcs-cargo.com>
- **Status**: ✅ Active

### 2. Quote Follow-Up Email (`quote-follow-up`)
- **Function**: `supabase/functions/quote-follow-up/index.ts`
- **Resend API Key**: ✅ Configured via `RESEND_API_KEY`
- **Email Type**: Automated follow-ups for expiring quotes
- **From**: QCS Cargo <quotes@qcs-cargo.com>
- **Status**: ✅ Active

## Testing Email Functionality

### Test Quote Request Email
1. Go to: https://qcs-cargo.com/shipping-calculator
2. Calculate a shipping quote
3. Click "Email my QCS Cargo quote"
4. Fill in customer details
5. Submit
6. **Expected**: Customer receives email with PDF attachment

### Test Quote Follow-Up Email
1. Admin panel → Quotes Management
2. Select expired or expiring quote
3. Trigger follow-up
4. **Expected**: Customer receives follow-up email

## Verification Steps

### 1. Check Supabase Secrets
```bash
supabase secrets list | grep RESEND
```
**Expected Output**: `RESEND_API_KEY | [hashed value]`

### 2. Check Edge Function Logs
```bash
# Quote Request
supabase functions logs quote-request --tail

# Quote Follow-Up  
supabase functions logs quote-follow-up --tail
```

### 3. Check Resend Dashboard
- Login to https://resend.com
- Navigate to **Logs** section
- Verify emails are being sent successfully

## Email Configuration Details

- **Provider**: Resend (https://resend.com)
- **API Endpoint**: https://api.resend.com/emails
- **From Email**: quotes@qcs-cargo.com
- **Reply-To**: quotes@qcs-cargo.com
- **Domain**: qcs-cargo.com (must be verified in Resend)

## Current Email Notifications

### ✅ Implemented
- Quote request emails (with PDF)
- Quote follow-up emails (with PDF)

### ❌ Not Yet Implemented (Database notifications only)
- Shipment status updates
- Booking confirmations
- Invoice notifications
- Document upload notifications

## Next Steps (Optional Enhancements)

To add email notifications for other events:

1. **Shipment Status Updates**
   - Modify `update-shipment-status` function
   - Send email when status changes to: delivered, out_for_delivery, exception

2. **Booking Confirmations**
   - Modify `create-booking` function
   - Send confirmation email after booking creation

3. **Invoice Notifications**
   - Modify `create-invoice` function
   - Send email when invoice is created

## Troubleshooting

### Emails Not Sending

1. **Check API Key**
   ```bash
   supabase secrets list | grep RESEND
   ```
   Should show `RESEND_API_KEY` secret

2. **Check Function Logs**
   ```bash
   supabase functions logs quote-request --tail 20
   ```
   Look for errors or "Resend API key not configured"

3. **Verify Domain**
   - Login to Resend dashboard
   - Check domain verification status
   - If not verified, can only send to verified email addresses

4. **Test API Key Directly**
   ```bash
   # Get API key from Supabase secrets first: supabase secrets list | grep RESEND
   # NEVER commit the actual API key to Git!
   curl -X POST 'https://api.resend.com/emails' \
     -H 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_RESEND_API_KEY_HERE' \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{
       "from": "QCS Cargo <quotes@qcs-cargo.com>",
       "to": "test@example.com",
       "subject": "Test Email",
       "html": "<p>Test</p>"
     }'
   ```

## Security Notes

- ✅ API key stored in Supabase Secrets (encrypted)
- ✅ Never committed to git
- ✅ Accessible only to edge functions
- ⚠️ Domain must be verified for production use
- ⚠️ API key should be rotated periodically

## Monitoring

- **Resend Dashboard**: https://resend.com/logs
- **Supabase Logs**: Edge function logs in Supabase dashboard
- **Error Tracking**: Check function logs for email failures
